What is the tech stack
using Remix look like?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
Use more than React, right?
>> Yeah totally.
So first on the React piece we
will support other frameworks in
the future that is not the case now but
yeah Remix will support view,
I'm thinking on the order of
months probably maybe weeks.
In the next week or so
we should release the Remix router which
is going to enable other frameworks.
In fact there's already experimentation
and working experimentation of using
the pre release of the Remix router with
view, angular and svelte and pre act.
So that work has already been
done getting that into Remix is
the next challenge but the new Remix
router has a lot of the really
cool features that we're gonna talk about.
What's cool about Remix itself, is that
it handles all the server rendering,
the file-based conventions and
all that stuff.
But a lot of the really great DX that you
experience with Remix can be used just
with the Remix router and
that you could use today.
I mean, it's a pre-release so, beware but
yeah, it's pretty basically done.
So as far as other elements of the tech
stack because Remix is full stack
you're gonna need some
server runtime to run it and
Remix runs everywhere anywhere
you can run JavaScript.
Maybe not IoT I don't know because some of
those have a small JavaScript environment.
But for any modern JavaScript
runtime you can run Remix.
So we even have one running in Bun,
we have official support for
Dino and of course, and
then Cloudflare workers,
Akamai EdgeWorkers, all of the things
wherever you can run JavaScript.
So as far as hosting is concerned,
you're everywhere.
And what's cool about that
is a lot of people are like,
there's no way we're gonna
ship node in production.
And that's fine.
You're probably using Akamai or
one of these other CDN so
you can still actually use
Remix in those environments.
As far as like database it's
really whatever you want it to be.
So at the top here we've got
an example of a route module and
this loader function runs on
the server and so you can have it hit,
you can have it make a fetch request to
another downstream API that you've got.
If I were still at PayPal and
I were implementing Remix,
that's what we would do.
We actually wouldn't do fetch requests.
We had like a bunch of modules for
accessing different services.
So we just X those access
those services in the loader,
as well as in the action for
mutating data.
So however you want to do
that Remix has no opinion.
Actually Remix we consider to be
center stack, so we're in charge
of the network we'll take care of that
between the client and the server.
We'll take care of that for you that's
actually as it turns out the hardest part
of building web app is managing that
Chasm between the client and the server.
So we manage that for you.
And then further downstream on the back
end, you're responsible for that stuff.
We do have if you don't wanna make all
these decisions, because I remember when I
was making these decisions for my app,
it was like I don't do backend stuff.
So I don't know what database to use and
or whatever.
So we put together this really
cool thing called Remix.
If you go to Remix.run/ stacks, these
Remix stacks that come pre configured
with a bunch of tools, a hosting provider,
like all of the things that you want.
And what's really cool about this is
you can actually make custom Stackins.
So And they're all named after music
sub genres because of course they are.
And so there is one.
I think my favorite is
the Kpop stack by Netlify.
And that one of course, the poison
Netlify uses Super Bass for the database,
just like all the things and just
instructions in the read me of how to get
things configured and connected and stuff.
So, yeah, does that answer your question?
Okay, sweet,
we're gonna be using the end stack today.
>> Why in general is it not possible
to achieve the best UX with static site
generation?
>> Great question.
So, because the best UX is accomplished
without, things popping
into place like this.
Right.
So if you are building a blog and
all it has a static content,
then you're not going to get any different
UX whether you serve a render that or
SSG that, and some people are like,
hold on a second with SSG.
I can put that on a CDN and so
it's gonna be faster, right?
Well, it turns out that for
decades now CDNs have been
able to take a server rendered HTML and
save it on the CDN.
And so
you get effectively the same UX anyway and
then you have way more
flexibility if you SSR that.
So SSG will be no better at serving
the user than SSR will even for
a completely static site.
And so
all that you're left with is okay, well,
what about use cases where you're
loading unique data for each user?
And yeah,
you cannot tell me that the site on the
left is better than the site on the right.
>> Right, If I have a marketing site
built with a headless CMS if there
is no static doesn't it mean
calling my CMS for every request?
>> Yeah that's a great question actually
what's interesting about that is every
time you make a change to your content.
You're calling your CMS for all the
content on your site to rebuild the whole
site, and then you say, no, but
next is building ISR or whatever.
Well, they actually just invented stay
while revalidate which CDN supported
for years.
So if you truly have a static site,
you can use a CDN between your user and
the origin server.
And now you're just hitting the CDN which
is exactly what you're doing with SSD.
So again you can do everything from
the user experience standpoint,
you can do everything with
SSR that you can do with SSD.
And way more.
>> Is there a way to get
props at run build time?
>> It is possible to do things that
run only at build time that is not
something that's built into Remix.
>> Do each of these child or
children segments have their
own loaders Like Sales Overview
wouldn't call the loader for invoices.
>> Yes.
>> Is it one loader and
it's all fetched on the server already?
>> Yeah, great question.
So each one of these, and
we'll talk about this, but
each one of these will have its own loader
and they're all called concurrently.
>> For a landing page,
how would you deal with SEO?
>> We will sort of talk about that
we don't have an exercise on it.
But you will see in a couple of spots
in the code where we've got stuff for
SEO, but like the title and
the description and OG image and
all that stuff, but yeah,
it's all just exports on your route.
What about support for
lazy loading of components?
>> Yeah react dot lazy
is totally supported and
with streaming you can actually even
stream lazy loaded components from
the server well,
>> Yeah, it works a little differently
than that but yeah, you can use React
lazy with Remix, so lazy loading.
You typically don't need to unless you've
got component that's like rendering
some D3 chart and it only shows up
when the user changes some state or
something pretty.
Unusual use case but unusual use cases or
what we call the world.
And so yeah, that's totally supported but
you normally don't need to worry about it
because Remix automatically chunks
up each one of your routes anyway.
Can you have multiple forms on
one page with his approach?
>> Yes, absolutely.
And we have an exercise for that.
>> What is the benefit of forms?
Is it used instead of fetch and
are there benefits that come with it?
Or am I misunderstanding?
Something.
>> Yeah, so benefit of form
is the simple mental model,
under the hood the form component that
Remix gives you is just doing a fetch.
But what's cool about it is that it gives
you a simple mental model to work with.
And we will definitely get
into that quite a bit.
>> What's the main difference
between Remix and Next.
>> Yeah that's a great question.
We have a blog post that goes into really
deep in depth on Remix versus Next and
I can't do it justice in a quick answer
here so I would defer to the blog post.
But it really goes deep into the into
the difference between Remix and Next.
>> How does Remix handle state management.
>> What is state management?
No just kidding but sort of not I'm gonna
to show you that you don't actually
think about state management
when you're using Remix.
No Redux, no Apollo, no Mob X, no React
Query, no application state management.
>> You will of course
need state management for
components that like a drop down or
different things like that autocomplete,
so there is still use cases for
use state but
yeah you can say goodbye to your
application state management libraries,
which is like that's a big
deal folks like you.
Probably half of the code
that you write if not more,
is related to state management.
You can just take all that and
throw it away when you're using Remix.
Your Redux store is the database,
this is pretty rad.
>> Can you get end to end
type safety working in Remix?
>> Yes, you can.
You will see that today and it is legit.
It is so cool.
Yeah, you're gonna experience that today.
Ryan, you had a question.
>> Is there any scenario where you
would not recommend using Remix?
>> Yeah, good question.
No.
[LAUGH] So here's here's the thing.
I wouldn't say that Remix is
perfectly well suited for
every use case that you
can have on the web.
Like, let's say you're building a game,
and it's just one page.
There are no routes.
There aren't a lot of use cases like that,
like even games are going to have
your user profile and stuff.
You're gonna have routes but
let's just say that's what you're doing.
What else are you gonna use?
Is there anything else that would
service that use case better?
I don't know what you're probably
going to use some libraries and
stuff you can use those with Remix.
Why not sure so that's why I say I can't
think of anything that I would use for
any use case for anything that has a URL.
I'm not just talking about UIs,
I would build a web API for
a mobile app with Remix.